NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone for a series of central and state government projects worth more than Rs 1.22 lakh crore in Banswara, Rajasthan.Among them was the Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltds (ASHVINI) Mahi Banswara Rajasthan Atomic Power Project, valued at about Rs 42,000 crore. The plant will have four 700 MW pressurized heavy water reactors and is expected to become one of the countrys largest nuclear facilities. PM Modi said that the project highlights his goal of providing affordable, reliable and sustainable electricity for all.The nuclear project will deliver steady base load power, strengthen Indias energy security and reinforce its efforts in clean energy. The reactors, designed by NPCIL with advanced safety systems, are part of Indias fleet mode plan to build ten standardised 700 MW units across the country. This model aims to save costs, speed up construction and improve operational efficiency.In addition, PM Modi opened and laid foundations for renewable energy projects in Rajasthan worth nearly Rs 19,210 crore. These include solar power facilities in Phalodi, Jaisalmer, Jalore and Sikar, along with a new project in Bikaner. The plants are expected to boost green power generation and help cut millions of tonnes of carbon emissions.Earlier, PM Modi and Rajasthan chief minister Bhajanlal Sharma paid floral tributes to Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya in Banswara on his birth anniversary.Earlier in the day, PM Modi also inaugurated the Uttar Pradesh International Trade Show 2025 at Greater Noida. Welcoming traders, investors, entrepreneurs and young participants, he said he was pleased that more than 2,200 exhibitors were showcasing their products and services at the event.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Expressing serious concerns over the situation in Ladakh, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday questioned if the country gained freedom from the British only to become slaves to the Bharatiya Janata Party instead of the invaders.In a post on social media X, Kejriwal, in a strongly worded post, alleged that the BJP was 'intoxicated' by the addiction of power and was turning one state after another into a Union Territory, and was snatching away the rights granted by the Constitution."What is happening in Ladakh today is extremely alarming. Every true patriot should stand with the people of Ladakh. Did we take freedom from the British just so that the public would become slaves to the BJP instead of the British? Revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh and Chandrashekhar Azad sacrificed their lives for democracy so that every Indian would have the right to choose their own government. But today, the BJP, intoxicated by the addiction of power, is turning one state after another into a Union Territory, snatching away the rights granted by the Constitution," the post read.Kejriwal further alleged in his post that the BJP was 'suppressing' the voice of the people of Ladakh and, despite repeated promises, had denied the right to vote to the people.Highlighting the presence of a dictatorship in the country, Kejriwal, through his post, urged the people to speak against the government in the fight for democracy."What are the people of Ladakh demanding? They are simply asking for their right to vote, the right to choose their government. But the BJP is suppressing their voice. Despite repeatedly promising, it is not giving them the right to vote. Democracy is the voice of the people... and when the government starts suppressing that very voice, it becomes the duty of the people to speak even louder. If we want to save the democracy of the country, we cannot remain silent against this dictatorship anymore. Today's fight in Ladakh could become the fight of the entire country tomorrow," the post further read.Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, Kavinder Gupta, chaired a high-level security review meeting on Thursday to assess the situation following protests demanding statehood and Sixth Schedule status that turned violent, resulting in clashes with the police.He stressed the need for heightened vigilance, stronger inter-agency coordination, and proactive steps to ensure peace, security, and public order across the Union Territory. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Thursday said the Centre should hold talks with the people of Ladakh to address their aspirations, and expressed concerns over the future of children. While talking with reporters, Abdullah warned that if a void is left in the border state, someone else (China) will try to fill it, PTI reported."I want to tell the government that it (Ladakh) is a border state. China is lurking, they have occupied land. It is time to resolve it quickly. The government should hold talks and resolve it," Abdullah told reporters here.Four people were killed and at least 80 injured during day-long clashes on Wednesday in Ladakh, triggered by a shutdown organised by the Leh Apex Body (LAB), which supports an agitation for statehood. Former chief minister Abdullah addressed reporters in the region, asserting that Ladakh is a border state threatened by Chinas presence. When questioned about the govt's allegation that climate activist Sonam Wangchuk was responsible for the violence, Abdullah stated that Wangchuk was not involved. "He (Wangchuk) has never left the Gandhian way. The youth have sidelined him today. He is not responsible for it. When they (BJP) lost elections, they imposed safety law and put people in jails. Now they are using CBI. More they use force to suppress, the bigger the danger. I want to tell the govt of India not to use force and instead hold dialogue," he added. Abdullah dismissed claims of external forces inciting trouble in Ladakh. "There is no external hand. It is the voice of the people," he said. He noted that for the past five years, Ladakhis have been quietly protesting for sixth schedule and statehood. "Their leader walked from Leh to Delhi to press for the demands. He adopted Gandhian way, not agitation. But the youth felt that the promises were hollow. The result was that they could not bear it any more," he stated. The former CM called on the Centre to learn from the Ladakh situation and honour its promises regarding Jammu and Kashmir. "Statehood was promised to Jammu and Kashmir but where is it? They should learn a lesson. Where are the promises you made with us? Where are the jobs? People from outside are being imposed," he said. When asked if his party supported the violent agitation in Ladakh, Abdullah affirmed that the National Conference adheres to the Gandhian way. "We gave sacrifices but never took to violence. However, what the youth do in future, I cannot say that for sure," he said. In response to BJP blaming Congress for the Ladakh violence, Abdullah described it as an attempt to deflect responsibility. "BJP has been ruling since 2019. Where did the Congress come from? They (BJP) always try to deflect. Congress cannot gather 10 persons," he said. Abdullah held Central govt leaders accountable for the situation in Ladakh. "Hold talks, don't talk about holding talks ...The leaders in Delhi are responsible for what is happening. They kept them busy with talks without anything substantial. They (youth) are feeling let down. The govt should move now faster and resolve the issue," he added. He warned that leaving a void in the Ladakh region could allow others to fill it. "Somebody will fill the gap. It is a very sensitive area. They (China) are craving for Ladakh. The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) had gone to China. Why did he go there? To improve relations," Abdullah said. Commenting on international relations, Abdullah stated that the United States was blaming India for Russias war on Ukraine. "America is coming after us for buying Russian oil. President Trump accused us of supporting war on Ukraine but the truth is we have not supported it," he said. Reacting to the govts assertion that no land has been occupied by China in Ladakh, Abdullah asserted that the world is aware of China's land acquisitions. "We cannot even patrol our land. How long we will live in a world of lies?" he charged.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of AIMIM leader and former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, accused in the 2020 Delhi riots murder of Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer Ankit Sharma.Also Read: Supreme Court grants custody parole to Tahir HussainJustice Neena Bansal Krishna dismissed the plea, despite Hussains lawyer arguing that he has been in custody for over five years and that the trial may take more time to conclude, news agency PTI reported.The Delhi Police had opposed the bail plea, calling it a shocking case involving the brutal killing of Sharma, who, the prosecution said, was stabbed 51 times and his body dumped in a drain near Khajuri Khas.Hussain was denied bail by the trial court on March 12.Sharma had gone missing on February 25, 2020, amid communal violence in northeast Delhi, which claimed 53 lives. His body was recovered the next day.Hussain, then an AAP councillor, was later expelled and joined AIMIM in December 2024. In February 2025, he contested the Delhi assembly elections from Mustafabad, where he finished third. The seat was won by BJPs Mohan Singh Bisht. The victory was part of a larger sweep that brought the saffron party back to power in Delhi for the first time since 1998, ending the AAPs 12-year rule.Four others are also accused in the Ankit Sharma murder case.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020, after confrontations between supporters and opponents of the Centres contentious citizenship law spiralled out of control, leaving 53 people dead and scores injured.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party announced poll in-charges for Bihar, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal on Thursday.The dates for the election have not been announced yet, but the BJP has appointed party leader Dharmendra Pradhan as its in-charge for the Bihar election. Party's CR Paatil and Keshav Prasad Maurya are appointed as co-incharges.For the Tamil Nadu elections, BJP appointed party leader Baijayant Panda as its Tamil Nadu election incharge. Murlidhar Mohol appointed as co-incharge. BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav has been appointed as the party's election incharge for West Bengal; Biplab Kumar Deb appointed co-incharge. The NDA-ruled Bihar is set to hold elections towards the end of the year, most probably in November. Unconfirmed reports suggest that the Election Commission of India may announce the poll dates sometime between Dussehra and Diwali. The poll-bound state is expected to witness a high-stakes battle between the BJP-led NDA and the Grand Alliance, comprising Congress, RJD, and the Left. Both alliances have sharpened their campaign strategies and are enhancing their public outreach to gain an advantage over each other. Dharmendra Pradhan has assumed responsibility for the BJPs electoral preparations, indicating the party's reliance on his deep understanding of the electoral landscape in Odisha and Eastern India. Uttar Pradesh Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Mauryas experience will be crucial in tipping the scales in the partys favour in the upcoming elections, while C.R. Patils disciplined and organised workstyle is expected to strengthen the partys election management.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: The ministry of defence on Thursday signed a Rs 62,370 crore contract with the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for the procurement of 97 LCA Mk1A aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF), including 68 fighters and 29 twin-seaters, along with associated equipment.The delivery of these aircraft would commence during 2027-28 and be completed over a period of six years. The aircraft will have an indigenous content of over 64%, with 67 additional items incorporated, over and above the previous LCA Mk1A contract signed in January 2021, the ministry of defence said. The integration of advanced indigenously developed systems such as the UTTAM Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) Radar, Swayam Raksha Kavach, and control surface actuators will further strengthen the Aatmanirbharta initiatives. The project is being supported by a robust vendor base of nearly 105 Indian companies directly engaged, the ministry said.HAL recently also received the third GE-404 engine for the LCA-MK1A (Tejas Mk1A) and another engine is expected to be delivered shortly. The MK1A variant of the LCA includes improvements in combat avionics and air-to-air refuelling capabilities.The Nashik division of HAL has a total of 2,207 employees, including 1,188 technical experts, 624 experts for technical support and 395 engineers.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: Central Bureau of Investigation has launched an inquiry into alleged violations of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) involving institutions founded by Ladakh-based educationist and activist Sonam Wangchuk, officials told news agency PTI. According to CBI sources cited by ANI, the investigation pertains to alleged violations of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA). In August, the Ladakh administration revoked the land allotment previously granted to the Himalayan Institute of Alternative Learning (HIAL).Wangchuk told PTI that a CBI team arrived around ten days ago with "an order" stating that they were acting on a complaint from the Ministry of Home Affairs concerning possible FCRA violations at the Himalayan Institute of Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL). "The order said we have not taken clearance under FCRA to receive foreign funds. We don't want to be dependent on foreign funds, but we export our knowledge and raise revenue. In three such instances, they thought it was foreign contribution," he said.Meanwhile, tensions in the region have escalated, with Leh witnessing its worst violence since 1989 on Wednesday. Youths set fire to vehicles, vandalised property, and attacked the BJP headquarters and the Hill Council building, prompting police and paramilitary forces to fire teargas shells to restore order.Leh's main market remained deserted on Thursday with shops shut a day after violence in the city. Section 163 of the BNSS has been imposed, banning gatherings of five or more people. Lieutenant Governor Kavinder Gupta also chaired a high-level security review meeting, stressing the need for increased vigilance, strong inter-agency coordination, and proactive steps to maintain peace, security, and public order throughout the Union Territory.'Guns blazing from all sides on us'Wangchuk explained that the CBI team visited both HIAL and the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL), seeking details of funds received between 2022 and 2024. Wangchuk maintained that the transactions in question were legitimate service agreements with taxes duly paid, involving work for the United Nations, a Swiss university and an Italian organisation. "It was a very dignified assignment. They saw it and they were convinced. They understood it is not helping them, so they began asking for accounts outside that period," he alleged.According to him, investigators extended their scrutiny beyond the mandated timeframe, even approaching schools not mentioned in the complaint. He said these schools provide free education to needy students, with stipends for project work at HIAL. "The CBI officers are still camping in Ladakh and rigorously going through records," he added, while noting that he has not personally been questioned.Wangchuk also claimed that this investigation followed a series of actions against him, including a sedition case filed by local police and an order revoking land allotted for HIAL on grounds of unpaid lease fees. "Everyone knows, we have documents to show. The government had almost been apologetic in saying that their lease policy is not formed and hence it cannot take fee. It said 'please bear with us and continue constructions'," he said.He further alleged that this was followed by income tax summons and the revival of an old complaint about unpaid labourers. "The funny part is, Ladakh is one place where there is no tax. Yet I voluntarily pay taxes, and I get summons. Then they resurrected a four-year-old complaint that labourers were not paid properly. It is guns blazing from all sides on us," he remarked.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: A video from Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior has gone viral in which a man being stopped by locals from urinating on the road threatens to shoot them with a gun.The incident took place on Wednesday night at 11pm. The street vendors, taking offence to the public urination near their business voiced their disapproval which resulted in a heated verbal exchange between the parties.Before taking out his gun and threatening a local cart family, he made crass comments and even questioned why their daughter was out that late in the night. "Keep your daughter inside the house at night," he said when the cart owner's wife confroted him.The viral post said, "In a brazen display of road rage late Wednesday night in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, a man parked his car by the roadside around 11 PM to urinate, sparking a heated confrontation with a nearby street cart family. The vendors, frustrated by the public indecency near their setup, raised objections and exchanged heated words, quickly escalating into verbal abuse.""The incident, captured partially on a bystander's phone and circulating on social media, has prompted swift police action, with authorities registering a case under arms act violations and launching a manhunt for the suspect based on vehicle details," the post added.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------UTTAR PRADESH: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) reforms in the country. Speaking at the Uttar Pradesh International Trade Show - 2025 (UPITS-2025) at Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar, the CM said that the GST reforms had brought a new kind of liveliness in the markets, which had also proved to be a new life for the ODOP sector industrialists. "After the implementation of historic next-generation GST reforms, this is the first time PM Narendra Modi has arrived in UP. I welcome him... Poor, farmers, women, youth, middle class, traders, small and medium enterprises, all communities and castes have received this Diwali gift, and I thank him for this... In the last four days, we have been able to see a new kind of liveliness in the markets. Consumers have rushed to the markets... This has proved to be a new life for our ODOP sector industrialists..." CM Yogi said while addressing the event.Giving insights into the event, the CM said that participation of more than 550 buyers from 80 countries was being witnessed, further stating that the event in itself was a big platform to showcase the state before the nation and the world."This is the third edition of UP International Trade Show. In this event, more than 550 buyers from 80 countries will be participating in it. More than 2250 exhibitors from across all 75 districts of UP are participating as partners... This is a very big platform that we have received to showcase UP before the nation and the world..." he added.Scheduled from September 25 to 29, the event, envisioned under the leadership of CM Yogi Adityanath, will showcase Uttar Pradesh's industrial, agricultural, cultural, and innovation strengths on a global stage.More than just a platform for trade and investment, UPITS 2025 aims to create a future-ready ecosystem for youth, entrepreneurs, and international delegates, while celebrating the state's diverse identity through the confluence of craft, culture, and cuisine.Since its inception, UPITS has grown remarkably in scale and impact. The inaugural 2023 edition, opened by President Droupadi Murmu, featured 1,914 exhibitors and 400 foreign buyers.A major highlight will be the One District One Product (ODOP) Pavilion in Hall No. 9, featuring 343 stalls dedicated to the signature products of each district. From Bhadohi carpets and Firozabad glasswork to Moradabad metalware and Saharanpur woodcraft, these displays will showcase the journey of Uttar Pradesh's craftsmanship from local to global.The pavilion will also create opportunities for networking, business collaborations, and partnerships involving startups, designers.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday doubled down on India's growth, calling it "attractive." Amid the tariff war, he gave a big push to 'Make in India' and "Atmanirbhar Bharat' initiatives, saying that the country must become "self-reliant." Speaking at the Uttar Pradesh International Trade Show - 2025 (UPITS-2025) at Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar, PM Modi said that even global disruptions didn't hinder the progress of the country and kept looking for new directions for growth. He emphasised that India is strengthening the foundations for the coming decades.PM Modi's big 'Make in India' push "Despite the global disruptions and uncertainties, India's growth is attractive. Disruptions don't hinder us, but even in those circumstances, we look for new directions. Amid all these disruptions, India is strengthening the foundations for the coming decades," PM Modi said."Our resolve and mantra is Atmanirbhar Bharat. Nothing can be more helpless than being dependent on others. The more a country stays dependent on others, the more its growth is going to be compromised," he added.'Chips to ships'  PM Modi further added that the government is focusing and aiming to make "chips to ships" in the country. He called for increasing investment in research and innovation to make the country self-reliant."The country must become self-reliant and every product that can be made in India should be made here," he said. The Prime Minister also added that the production of AK-203 rifles will soon begin in a factory setup in Uttar Pradesh in collaboration with Russia. "We are developing a vibrant defence sector, creating an ecosystem where every component bears the mark of 'Made in India,'" he asserted. He said that the country is witnessing a "platform for all, progress for all" through some of the landmark initiatives taken in the fintech sector."Our fintech sector has strengthened the inclusive development. The open platforms we made are inclusive to everyone. UPI, Aadhar, all these initiatives. Its impact is shown everywhere, whether shopping in a mall or a tea seller, they both are using UPI," he said.11 years of 'Make in India' initiative PM Modi's 'Make in India' initiative push came at a time when the country is marking its 11th anniversary. In 2014, PM Modi launched the initiative to revive the nation's industrial base and turn the country into a global manufacturing hub. The Prime Minister also praised UP for its growth in the manufacturing sector, saying that 55% of all mobile phones are made in UP."Of all the mobile phones manufactured in India, 55% are made in UP. UP will strengthen India's self-reliance in the semiconductor sector. Our forces want to reduce their dependence on other nations. We are developing a vibrant defence sector in India. Very soon, in the factory set up with the help of Russia, we will begin manufacturing the AK-203 rifles. A defence corridor is being built in UP," he said.After inaugurating Uttar Pradesh International Trade Show, he said, Today, through the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal, around 25 lakh sellers and service providers are providing supplies to the government. These are small shopkeepers and traders who can sell their products to the government. In earlier governments, this was impossible to even consider, but today, even a small shopkeeper is selling their goods through this portal. India is moving forward to achieve its goal of 'Viksit Bharat' by 2047."He expressed happiness after more than 2250 exhibitors displayed their products and services. "This time, the country partner of the trade show is Russia, which means we are further strengthening this time-tested partnership," he said.CM Yogi hails 'next generation' GST reforms  Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also addressed the event, hailed the implementation of "next-generation" GST reforms, calling it a "Diwali gift" to the poor, farmers, women, middle class and more. "After the implementation of historic next-generation GST reforms, this is the first time PM Narendra Modi has arrived in UP. I welcome him. Poor, farmers, women, youth, middle class, traders, small and medium enterprises, all communities and castes have received this Diwali gift, and I thank him for this. In the last four days, we have been able to see a new kind of liveliness in the markets. Consumers have rushed to the markets. This has proved to be a new life for our ODOP sector industrialists," the UP CM said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: Chief of Defence Staff General Anil Chauhan said that the use of Air Force during the 1962 Sino-Indian war "would have slowed Chinese offensive considerably." However, he added that it would have been considered "escalatory" in nature at that time, which wasn't the case during Operation Sindoor. "They would have had a significant advantage during the 1962 conflict. Shorter turnaround times, a favourable geography and the ability to bring maximum payloads to bear with maximum weight on the enemy. Use of air power would have slowed the Chinese offensive considerably, if not stymied it completely," he said."This would have given the Army much more time to prepare. In those days, I think, the use of the Air Force was considered escalatory. This, I think, is no longer true, and Operation Sindoor is an apt example of this," he added. His remarks came in a recorded video message on Wednesday at the release of revised autobiography of late Lieutenant General SPP Thorat, titled 'Reveille to Retreat.'CDS's reasoning for 'flawed' policyHe termed the use of uniform policy in Ladakh and NEFA (North-East Frontier Agency), present-day Arunachal Pradesh, "flawed."Explaining his viewpoint, he said that Ladakh and NEFA had very different contexts -- former had significant Chinese occupation, while India's claim in the latter was stronger. "All I can say is that the forward policy should not have been applied uniformly to Ladakh and NEFA. The two regions had very different histories of the dispute, a different security context and entirely different terrain," he said."In Ladakh, China had already occupied much of Indian territory, whereas in NEFA, the legitimacy of India's claim was stronger. To equate the two and pursue identical policies was, in my view, a bit flawed," he added.However, he did note that views on forward policy would be coloured due to changed "To comment on the adequacy or inadequacy of the forward policy at this time is slightly difficult. Our views will be coloured due to many reasons, like geography has changed entirely and so has geopolitics," he said.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: Asserting that India needs to demonstrate leadership on the issue of Palestine, Congress Parliamentary Party chairperson Sonia Gandhi on Thursday slammed the Modi government's stance, saying its response has been characterised by a "profound silence" and an abdication of both humanity and morality.She said the government's actions appear to be driven primarily by the personal friendship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu and rather than India's constitutional values or its strategic interests."This style of personalised diplomacy is never tenable and cannot be the guiding compass of India's foreign policy. Attempts to do the same in other parts of the world, most notably in the United States , have come undone in the most painful and humiliating ways in recent months," Gandhi said in her article published in The Hindu.This is the third article by Gandhi on the Israel-Palestine conflict, published in a national daily in the recent past, in which she has vehemently criticised the Modi government's stance on the issue.India's standing on the world stage cannot be wrapped up into the personal glory-seeking ways of one individual, nor can it rest on its historical laurels. It demands persistent courage and a sense of historical continuity, she said in her article titled 'India's muted voice, its detachment with Palestine'.Gandhi pointed out that France has joined the United Kingdom, Canada, Portugal and Australia in recognising Palestinian statehood -- "the first step in the fulfilment of the legitimate aspirations of the long-suffering Palestinian people".More than 150 of the 193 countries that are members of the United Nations have now done so, she said.Gandhi underlined that India had been a leader in this regard having formally recognised Palestinian statehood way back on November 18, 1988, after years of support to the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO).She cited the examples of how India raised the issue of Apartheid South Africa even before Independence and during the Algerian struggle for independence (1954-62), India was one of the strongest voices for an independent Algeria.In 1971, India intervened firmly to prevent genocide in what was then East Pakistan, midwifing the birth of modern-day Bangladesh, she pointed out.On the critical and sensitive issue of Israel-Palestine as well, India has long maintained a delicate but principled position, emphasising its commitment to peace and the protection of human rights, the former Congress chief said.India needs to demonstrate leadership on the issue of Palestine, which is now a battle for justice, identity, dignity and human rights, Gandhi asserted.In the last two years, since the outbreak of hostilities between Israel and Palestine in October 2023, India has all but relinquished its role, she opined."The brutal and inhumane Hamas attacks on Israeli civilians on October 7, 2023, were followed by an Israeli response that has been nothing less than genocidal. As I have previously raised, more than 55,000 Palestinian civilians have been killed, including 17,000 children," she said.The residential, schooling and health infrastructure of the Gaza Strip has been obliterated, as have agriculture and industry, Gandhi said."Gazans have been forced into a famine-like situation, with the Israeli military cruelly obstructing the delivery of much-needed food, medicine, and other aid -- a 'drip-feeding' of aid amidst an ocean of desperation," she said.In one of the most revolting acts of inhumanity, hundreds of civilians have been shot down while trying to access food, she pointed out.Gandhi opined that the world has been slow to respond, implicitly legitimising the Israeli actions.The recent moves by several countries to recognise Palestine as a sovereign state are a welcome and long-due departure from the policy of inaction, she said."This is a historical moment and an assertion of the principles of justice, self-determination and human rights. These steps are not merely diplomatic gestures; they are affirmations of the moral responsibility that nations bear in the face of prolonged injustice.It is a reminder that in the modern world, silence is not neutrality, it is complicity," she said.And here, India's voice, once so unwavering in the cause of freedom and human dignity, has remained "conspicuously muted", Gandhi said, hitting out at the Modi government.Meanwhile, it is appalling that just two weeks ago, India not only signed a bilateral investment agreement with Israel, in New Delhi, but also hosted its highly controversial far-right finance minister who has invited global condemnation for his repeated incitements of violence against Palestinian communities in the occupied West Bank, she said.Gandhi argued that India must not approach the issue of Palestine as merely a matter of foreign policy but as a test of India's ethical and civilisational heritage.The people of Palestine have endured decades of displacement, prolonged occupation, settlement expansion, restrictions on movement and repeated assaults on their civil, political and human rights, she said.Their plight echoes the struggles that India faced during the colonial era -- a people deprived of their sovereignty, denied a nationhood, exploited for their resources, and stripped of all rights and security."We owe Palestine a sense of historical empathy in its quest for dignity, and we also owe Palestine the courage to translate that empathy into principled action," she said.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: India on Thursday successfully conducted a test launch of the intermediate-range Agni-Prime missile from a rail-based mobile launcher system. This marks the first time such a launch has been carried out using a specially designed platform integrated with the national railway network.Defence minister Rajnath Singh confirmed the successful test in a statement on X, calling it a "first-of-its-kind launch" that demonstrates Indias growing strategic deterrence capabilities.The first-of-its-kind launch carried out today from a specially designed rail-based Mobile Launcher has the capability to move on the Rail network without any preconditions, which allows users to have cross-country mobility and launch within a short reaction time with reduced visibility, he said.Also read: India tests its most formidable Agni-5 missile"Congratulations to DRDO, Strategic Forces Command (SFC) and the Armed Forces on the successful test of the Intermediate Range Agni-Prime missile. This successful flight test has put India in the group of select nations having capabilities that have developed a canisterised launch system from a mobile rail network," the post added.The Agni-Prime, a next-generation ballistic missile is capable of striking targets at ranges of up to 2,000 kilometers.The test follows the successful launch of the missile in August at Chandipur, Odisha.In March 2024, a trial of Agni-5 was conducted under Mission Divyastra, showcasing MIRV (multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicle) capability. A MIRV-equipped missile can carry 34 nuclear warheads, each aimed at different targets. Currently, the SFC, formed in 2003, operates only single-warhead missiles. The solid-fuelled, three-stage Agni-5 is canister-launched, allowing rapid deployment.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: Ladakh witnessed its worst violence in decades on Wednesday as a protest over statehood and Sixth Schedule safeguards spiralled into clashes that left four people dead and more than 80 injured, including police personnel. Curfew was imposed in Leh, vehicles were set ablaze, and security forces fired teargas and live rounds to quell the crowds.Climate activist Sonam Wangchuk, who had been on a hunger strike for statehood and constitutional protections, called off his fast as tensions erupted after two fellow hunger strikers collapsed and were hospitalised. Here are ten key points explaining what led to the unrest:The spark: Hunger strike and hospitalisationThe immediate trigger came on Tuesday evening when two hunger strikers, Tsering Angchuk (72) and Tashi Dolma (60), were shifted to hospital in critical condition. They were part of a 35-day fast demanding statehood and Sixth Schedule protections. Their collapse moved youths across Ladakh to take to the streets in solidarity. By Wednesday morning, a shutdown had been called, crowds gathered at Martyrs Ground in Leh, and anger spilled over into clashes. Climate activist Sonam Wangchuk admitted the hospitalisation acted as the flashpoint for the violence that derailed his peaceful campaign.What are the demands?At the heart of the agitation are four demands: statehood for Ladakh, extension of the Sixth Schedule, separate Lok Sabha seats for Leh and Kargil, and employment reservations. Protesters argue that without Sixth Schedule protections, Ladakhs fragile ecosystem, land rights, and cultural identity face severe threats. The Sixth Schedule, currently applicable to tribal areas in the northeast, provides autonomy through elected councils with financial and administrative powers. Activists accuse the BJP of reneging on its 2020 promise to secure this status for Ladakh.Sonam Wangchuk ends his hunger strikeClimate activist Sonam Wangchuk, who began fasting on 10 September, announced an abrupt end to his protest as violence erupted. I request the youth of Ladakh to stop the violence forthwith as it only causes harm to our cause, he said. Calling it the saddest day for Ladakh, Wangchuk admitted that his peaceful path had failed but urged the government to listen to the peoples demands. We will keep our agitation non-violent, he promised, stressing that the aim of his hunger strike was defeated if young lives were lost.Four killed, scores injured in clashesOfficials confirmed that four protesters, aged 19, 20, 23 and 46, were killed in clashes, with at least 80 others injured. More than 40 police personnel were among the wounded. Witnesses said teargas and lathi charges were used before security forces opened live fire when crowds hurled stones and attacked government and BJP offices. Several protesters reportedly lost limbs in the violence. The deaths marked the first fatal clashes in Ladakh since it became a Union Territory in 2019, reviving painful memories of 1989 when three people were killed during protests for UT status.Arson and vandalism across LehAs tensions escalated, groups of youths torched vehicles and vandalised public property. The BJP headquarters and the Hill Council office in Leh were set on fire, along with a police vehicle. Officials described scenes of flames and dark smoke billowing across the town. The police resorted to firing and teargas to disperse crowds, but the violence spread rapidly. Authorities later imposed curfew to prevent further bloodshed, saying the days events represented one of the darkest moments in Ladakhs recent history.Government blames 'provocative statements'The Union home ministry accused politically motivated individuals and provocative statements of fuelling the unrest. In its statement, it urged people not to circulate old or misleading videos on social media and assured that dialogue with Ladakhs groups was continuing. The government stands committed to the aspiration of the people of Ladakh by providing adequate constitutional safeguards, it said. It pointed to ongoing talks with the Leh Apex Body (LAB) and Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) through a High-Powered Committee. The next round of talks was already scheduled for October 6, the ministry noted.Lt Governor calls it a conspiracyLt Governor Kavinder Gupta condemned the violence, calling it heart-wrenching and a conspiracy to disturb Ladakhs peace. Everyone has the right to speak in a democratic system, but what happened today was not spontaneous, he said, vowing action against those responsible. Gupta alleged attempts were being made to replicate uprisings in Nepal and Bangladesh and blamed vested interests for inciting violence. He urged Ladakhis, particularly the youth, to restore calm, emphasising that the administration stood with them but would not spare conspirators.Political blame game intensifiesThe clashes quickly turned political. The BJP accused the Congress of fuelling the unrest, claiming the violence was part of a larger conspiracy. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra alleged it was a Congress-led protest disguised as a Gen Z revolution. The Congress, however, blamed the Modi government for mishandling the situation and delaying talks. Congress leader Manish Tewari demanded a forensic examination of how a peaceful protest turned violent. Omar Abdullah said Ladakhs unrest reflected broader discontent with the denial of statehood across Jammu and Kashmir.CentreLadakh talks and frustrationsSince 2019, Ladakhi groups have repeatedly demanded constitutional safeguards. The Leh Apex Body and Kargil Democratic Alliance jointly spearheaded the movement, forcing the Centre to set up a High-Powered Committee in January 2023. Talks, however, stalled after May, when only a domicile policy was finalised. The hunger strike and fresh shutdown were aimed at pressuring the Centre to resume dialogue. With the next meeting set for October 6, activists accused the government of dragging its feet. Wangchuk said frustration among Ladakhs youth grew because the government ignored peaceful appeals for years.What next?With curfew in place and security forces deployed across Leh, the situation remains tense. Authorities fear the death toll may rise, with several injured in critical condition. Reinforcements from the CRPF have been brought in, and Section 163 of BNSS has been invoked to ban rallies without prior approval. Activists insist dialogue must resume urgently to prevent further escalation. We do not want instability in Ladakh and the country, Wangchuk said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------A US official confirmed that a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump was on the cards, ANI reported on Thursday. However, no further details were provided about the probable meet. "I'm sure you'll see the two meet. They have a very, very positive relationship," ANI quoted the official saying.Despite trade and visa tensions with India, Trump has called PM Modi "a good friend" and relationship with New Delhi "very special."Trump also called PM Modi on his 75th birthday appreciating him for doing a "tremendous job.""Just had a wonderful phone call with my friend, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I wished him a very Happy Birthday! He is doing a tremendous job. Narendra: Thank you for your support on ending the War between Russia and Ukraine!" Trump had said.Earlier this week, external affairs minister S Jaishankar met US Secretary of State Marco Rubio where the two "agreed on the importance of sustained engagement to progress on priority areas."PM Modi met Trump in February when the two leaders held bilateral talks on trade, energy, and defence cooperation.Recent US-India tensions stem from Trumps 50% tariffs on Indian imports, including a 25% levy tied to Russian oil, and a new H-1B visa fee of $100,000 that could impact Indian IT professionals and startups. Despite these issues, both countries are pursuing trade talks as the deadline looms.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------KUALA LUMPUR: Amidst an unsettling global scenario, India is panning its economic heft to resolve the Asean trade disputes. The Asean bloc, after a rather lackluster round of AITIGA (Asean India Trade in Goods Agreement) review in Delhi last month, has offered a new package that will create a "landing zone" for India to address the widening trade imbalance concerns. India's trade deficit with Asean stood at approximately $43.57 billion in FY 2022-23. Talking to TOI, Mastura Ahmad Mustafa, deputy secretary general (trade), ministry of investment, trade and industry, Malaysia, said, "We convened special AEM (Asean Economic Ministers) meetings subsequent to our discussions at the Delhi AITIGA review, to reach key decisions that will help us achieve a substantial conclusion of the review process before this year ends. We have offered a new package to India, a landing zone, which will provide a constructive basis to progress our talks." "We are encouraged by the positive feedback we have received from India, on the package and we look forward to build on this momentum to deliver meaningful outcomes for both sides," she further added. Currently, Malaysia is hosting the 57th AEM & Related Meetings, and the Indian delegation led by minister of state for commerce & industry, Jitin Prasada, has already arrived in Kuala Lumpur for the meetings.Mastura declined to give details of the 'package'. Sources, however, pointed out specifics are being refined and the proposals are designed not merely to address current trade frictions but to harness the vast untapped potential of economic ties. Some of the proposals that could find its way into the final framework would likely be on joint ventures in high-potential sectors like electronics and pharmaceuticals etc.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: After half a century and several rounds of litigation, Supreme Court approved on Wednesday an April 30, 1974, decision of the collector of Dadra and Nagar Haveli to rescind the erstwhile Portuguese govts grant of possession rights over land to Indians for cultivation.What rankled a bench of Justices Surya Kant, Dipankar Datta and N K Singh was that even after 78 years of Independence the highest court is engaged in resolving disputes relating to rights conferred by colonial powers, which exploited Indias wealth and resources.Dadra and Nagar Haveli was liberated from Portuguese occupation in 1954 and was integrated with India in 1961 as a Union Territory.Certain persons were granted inheritable possession rights over vast tracts of land in Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Portuguese govt for an indefinite period, subject to payment of annual rent. Over a century, these landowners progeny have divided these lands between them.Indian govt in 1969 rescinded the lands allotted by Portuguese govt and reverted these to administration. These were challenged before Bombay HC.During pendency, D&N Land Reforms Regulation, 1971, was brought in, which stipulated that land allotted by Portuguese govt to persons should have been cultivated regularly.The collector found the land uncultivated and took back the land by an order of April 30, 1974.This was challenged in the trial court by heirs of people who were given possession of land. Trial court quashed the collectors order in June 1978.Govt appealed against this in HC, which ruled that a 1963 ruling of Lisbon court on rights of such allottees cannot serve as a precedent for Indian courts and govt, in exercise of its sovereign powers, can exercise its powers to resume land allotted by an erstwhile colonial govt.Dismissing appeals against the hcourts decision and writing a 79-page judgment, Justice Kant said, The appellants pleas of waiver, acquiescence, delay, impossibility, and condonation have no legal or factual basis, and none of these principles render the Collectors order, dated April 30, 1974, unsustainable.The Collectors order was not tainted by mala fides and cannot be construed as having been passed with the intent to disentitle the appellants from the statutory benefits under the 1971 Land Reforms Regulation, the bench said.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------MUMBAI: Ahead of themunicipal polls, BJP Mumbai president Ameet Satam , who visited the TOI office Wednesday, said the party was confident of winning over 150 seats in alliance with the Eknath Shindeled Shiv Sena and Ajit Pawarled NCP.He said seat-sharing talks will begin only after the reservation lottery is completed, but their constituency-wise analysis showed the Mahayuti is well-positioned to take control of the countrys richest civic body. Satam added while final seat distribution would depend on ground assessments, BJP had a clear vision to give the city its due. We are confident of winning 150-plus seats based on the ward-by-ward analysis we have done considering all aspects. We have not yet begun seatsharing talks, but then it would only be right to do so once the reservation lottery is completed. We feel Mumbai has missed being led by a definite and clear vision, which we feel we are in a position to offer, Satam said.On a possible alliance between Raj and Uddhav Thackeray, Satam said they might have come together, but this has not had any impact on the ground. The Marathi manoos knows who has done real work and will vote for the Mahayuti. Development, safety and security and a vision for Mumbai will be our focus, he said.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: In a strong message to state regulatory bodies to act responsibly while dealing with complaints against advocates, SC Wednesday imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 each in two cases on Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa (BCMG) for entertaining frivolous complaints against two lawyers and ordering inquiries.A bench of Justices Vikram Nath and Sandeep Mehta said that as per the law the bar councils concerned must record reasons for its prima facie belief that an advocate has committed misconduct requiring reference of the complaint to the disciplinary committee.It found that in both cases, references of complaints to DC were preceded by 'cryptic & laconic' orders without recording any satisfaction to the effect that the advocates committed misconduct.Marriage illegal if conversion doc fakeInterfaith marriage on the basis of fake conversion certificates is illegal, ruled Allahabad HC, adding such marriages could only be registered under Special Marriage Act, reports Rajesh Kumar Pandey. In the case, the petitioner, and a Hindu woman, sought orders directing respondents not to interfere in their marital life. During court proceedings, the Muslim youth produced a conversion certificate, which showed the Hindu woman converted to Islam and married him. HC, though, found the certificate fake.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW DELHI: Supreme Court on Wednesday ticked off the Union govt for opposing consideration of the plea of condemned prisoner Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted of killing then Punjab CM Beant Singh in 1995, for commutation of death sentence. Rajoana has petitioned for reprieve on the ground that he has been on death row for nearly two decades now. Additional solicitor general K M Nataraj told a bench headed by Justice Vikram Nath that the President did not take a call on Rajoana's plea as it was filed by others and not by the prisoner himself. The bench, however, was not persuaded. If sentence is commuted, Rajoana will walk: Rohatgi Appearing for Rajoana, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said that Supreme Court has commuted death sentences of convicts who had been facing the gallows for just two years. "Here the man has been behind bars for three decades, and two decades under the shadow of a death sentence. If SC commutes his sentence to life imprisonment, he will be released from prison," Rohatgi said. He cited an apex court judgment commuting the death sentence of Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar and said the man was convicted for 1993 bomb blasts in Delhi, which had killed nine persons, and had remained on death row since 2001. In 2014, SC commuted his sentence to life term on the ground that there had been an inordinate delay in his execution despite the President rejecting his mercy plea, argued the senior advocate. On Sept 27, 2019, Union home ministry informed the Punjab chief secretary that on the occasion of commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev a decision was taken to commute Rajoana's death penalty to life term. But this was not given effect to. Rajoana, who had not appealed against the death sentence given by trial court in 2007 and its approval by Punjab and Haryana HC in 2010, moved SC seeking commutation of his death sentence on the ground that he was in prison for last 25 years and on death row for last 13 years. Rajoana and Jagtar Singh Hawara were awarded death sentences by the trial court for the bomb blast on Aug 31, 1995 which killed Beant Singh and 16 others outside the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------